---
layout: post
title: "Keeping Track of What I've Read"
date: 2017-07-07 17:41:00 -0500
tags: literature books lists
---

Things I've read recently and some thoughts on keeping track of lists of books and blogs

## Finished Within the past month or so

### Sudden Death - Álvaro Enrique
I didn't really enjoy the first half or so of the novel, but after Rombaud's trial I think the parallel story threads hit their stride and "clicked". I believe this is the first ~postmodern~ novel that I've read that really threw itself into the genre (included emails to the editor, had a chapter where the author basically says "I have no idea what I'm writing"). It ended in a very satisfying way, was a joy to read, and included a lot of interesting history surrounding tennis, art, and the Americas.
I think there's a lot of value to a non-conformist plot structure like this one. Postmodernism exists within a mass culture where the individual prizes their interaction with art above the art, but at the same time pushes the individual outside of the universal in that there's no allowed universal reading of the art. You can either attempt to bring it back into the universal by discarding it as good or bad or reframing it through a universal lens. At the same time, there's room to accept the break from culture. The art exists outside, and we can either pull it back in or join it on the border.

### Evicted - Matthew Desmond
An enjoyable read, but I have personal objections to the narrative format, which I believe allows for a reader to distance themselves from any responsibility or call to action and feel comfortable in their newfound "awareness" of the problems people in poverty face in housing. The information presented is easily digestible and never an existential threat to the reader. You can bring up that you read it at a dinner party, feel good about that, and move on with your life. There is no action you can take and no reaction because nothing in the narratives is happening to you, the only thing happening to you is shame that you haven't read a Pulitzer prize winning book about "real issues". You can't expect everything written to motivate and inspire but something about this particular novelization of suffering rubbed me the wrong way.

### Like Life - Lorrie Moore
A fantastic collection of sad brains short stories where everybody is on the verge of a nervous breakdown and is awful and in an awful relationship. "Two Boys" and "The Jewish Hunter" were favorites. Looking forward to reading more by Moore.

### A Woman Looking at Men Looking at Women - Siri Hustvedt
_Living, Thinking, Looking_ and _A Woman Looking at Men Looking at Women_ have made Hustvedt one of my favorite essayists. Her essays draw on a wealth of existing knowledge and personal experiences to make brilliant explorations into various topics in art criticism and personal psychology. Her writing is confident and comfortable with itself and pushes the reader to analyze themselves and their opinions and frameworks rather than accepting existing ones. I found the art criticism essays to be less interesting, but I think this made me more aware of my disinterest in the role of gender in established institutions. It's easy to discard the essays as less engaging and to say "well, this doesn't affect me," even though it's important to recognize the harm caused by virtue of the art world being male-dominated. A critical look at gender in art, and in contemporary society in general, has led me to confront my own tacit acceptance/disregard of it.

### Fear and Trembling - Soren Kierkegaard
I didn't know much about Kierkegaard prior to reading this but _Fear and Trembling_ was a treat. He writes in a literary way which is fun to follow. He's sort of the grandfather of theology in existentialism, both things I like, so I look forward to reading more. _Fear and Trembling_ on it's own presents an interesting look at how Hegelian approaches to ethics fall apart when looking at Abraham and his faith, while simultaneously presenting an assortment of thoughts about purpose and the idea of seeking out more than is "enough" in contemporary philosophical thought.

### Art & Fear: Observations on the Perils (and Rewards) of Artmaking - Bayles and Orland
I've struggled with finding purpose and drive in creating art, and _Art & Fear_ presents a lot of general existential/psychological thought I agree with in the context of creation. The first half was relevant to these ideas with takeaways such as "You find reasons to procrastinate, since to not work is to not make mistakes." Yeah! That's life in general! We don't do things because they're scary and we'll be found out as incompotent. Hearing it said to you about something like artmaking makes the problem real and tangible and therefore easier to interact with. I glossed over the second half which covered topics such as finding an audience, which seemed much less existential, but the first half was great.