---
layout: post
title: "Books and Other Media Dec 2018"
date: 2018-12-19 13:52:00 -0500
tags: literature books lists
---

## Books

### The Conflict of the Faculties - Immanuel Kant

Kant seems like a codger trying to keep his cushy university job after criticizing the administration (king, organized religion of the time, whatever). It's interesting to think about the relationship between the government and the dissemination of information/knowledge to the public, but it was rightfully pointed out to me that the role of a university and the place it had in society was very different when Kant was around. Universities were for the rich, so it wasn't really that the government decided what to teach everyone, just that it decided what to teach the rich that went into academia. With that in mind, I'm not sure there is anything of value for a contemporary reader here outside of historical curiosity. I haven't read much else by Kant, but I imagine he writes much more about reason is in his other works. 

The majority of the text is focused on why religious faculties should be kept in check by lower faculties (such as philosophy), written by Kant in a successful attempt to not lose his job at the university. The first half of the writing about the religion faculty is about the intersection between the religion and lower faculties. I think it is interesting and don't disagree with him that criticizing educational faculties should be allowed. The latter half is about the validity of the intersection of philosophy and religion. I don't agree with his thoughts regarding philosophical exegesis, and am unconvinced that the benefits of religion are in how we interpret the tenets through human reason.

The sections on the conflict of the philosophy faculty with the business and medical faculties seem like unrelated writings of his that were tacked on to this one for some bizarre sense of completion. His writings on his personal medical opinions in particular seem like they should have no place in a text that supposedly has philosophical value and just display the lack of medical knowledge that was available at the time.

## Television, Movies, etc

## Music

